1. What is the name given to the tradition of rules and customs that has grown up in the civilized world for dealing with meeting problems? (pg. 5)
a. Parliamentary procedure
b. Group interaction
c. Resolution
2. Groups that meet to decide on action to be taken are known as: (pg. 5)
a. Caucuses
b. Deliberative assemblies
c. Special organizations
3. The person chosen to preside over a meeting: (p. 12)
a. Makes all the decisions in the meeting
b. Keeps order in the meeting
c. Should not designate who can speak
4. The minimum number of members who must be present for a meeting is called: (pg. 12)
a. The quorum
b. The agenda
c. The session
5. Which items may be found in the standard order of business? (pg. 13)
a. Approval of minutes, reports, and new business
b. Opening ceremonies, old business, and awards
c. Adoption of motions, code of ethics, and inspirations
6. What does the chair say after the secretary reads the minutes? (pg. 14)
a. “Are there any additions, corrections, or changes to the minutes?”
b. “Has everyone read the minutes?”
c. “Are there any corrections to the minutes?”
7. When the draft minutes are sent to everyone before the meeting: (pg. 14)
a. They must still be read out loud
b. They do not have to be read unless a member insists
c. They are never read in the meeting
8. What does the chair say when there are no (or no more) corrections to the minutes? (pg. 14)
a. All in favor of approving the minutes, say aye. Those opposed, say no
b. If there is no objection, the minutes are approved
c. If there are no (further) corrections, the minutes are approved
9. When a report is given in the meeting: (pg. 14)
a. Any recommendations are considered at the end of the report
b. Any recommendations are considered under new business
c. Any recommendations are postponed until the next meeting
10. Unfinished business on the agenda is: (pg. 15)
a. Another name for old business
b. Items on the agenda at the last meeting that were not reached before adjourning
c. Items of business that have been discussed in the past
11. How can a group use an agenda that is different from the standard order of business? (pg.  16)
a. The president declares the alternative agenda to be in use
b. The group must use the standard agenda
c. The agenda must be adopted by the group at the start of the meeting
12. What does the chair say when the meeting is done? (pg. 17)
a. Since there is no further business, this meeting is over
b. Is there any further business? Since there is no further business, the meeting is adjourned
c. Good night and thank you for coming
13. How is an item of business proposed in a meeting? (pg. 19)
a. Form a committee
b. Make a motion
c. Start a discussion
14. In order to speak in a meeting, you should: (pg. 19)
a. Raise your hand and keep it up until the chair calls on you
b. After the previous speaker finishes, stand and say, “Mr. or Madam President”
c. After the previous speaker finishes, call out Mr. or Madam President”
15. What do you say to properly make a motion? (pg. 20)
a. I’d like to make a motion
b. I motion that…
c. I move to…
16. A second means: (pg. 21)
a. The seconder agrees with the motion
b. The seconder wants the motion to be considered
c. The seconder does not want the motion to be defeated
17. What is the next step after a motion is moved and seconded? (pg. 21)
a. The chair states the motion
b. The members debate the motion
c. The members vote on the motion
18. What are the two duties of the chair related to stating a motion? (pg. 22)
a. Deciding who can speak on the motion and who can vote
b. Determining that the motion is in order and that it is clearly phrased
c. Making sure there is a second and that the motion is on the floor
19. What does debate mean? (pg. 23)
a. Discussion on the merits of the motion
b. Disagreement about the motion
c. Argument between two members
20. What does the chair say when it appears no one else seeks recognition to speak? (pg. 24)
a. It’s time to vote now or I’m going to take the vote now
b. The decision is that we will….
c. Are you ready for the question or Is there any further debate?
21. If there is no further debate, what does the chair say? (pg. 24)
a. The question is on the adoption of the motion that…
b. We’re going to vote on the motion
c. It’s time to vote on the question
22. Which of the following is the correct form to announce the result of a vote? (pg. 25)
a. The motion passes
b. The ayes have it and the motion is adopted
c. The next item of business is…
23. How many times may a member speak in debate on any debatable motion on the same day? (pg. 29)
a. No limits
b. Three times
c. Two times
24. How long may a member speak each time he has the floor? (pg. 29)
a. Three minutes
b. Five minutes
c. Ten minutes
25. Who has preference in recognition? (pg. 29)
a. The first person to raise his or her hand
b. The vice-president or the next officer in line
c. The person who made the motion
26. In debate, a member’s speech must relate to the motion under discussion; therefore, the remarks must be (pg. 30)
a. Germane
b. Dilatory
c. Confident
27. In order to avoid personal attacks in debate, rules of debate require (pg. 31)
a. All members to be on time for the meeting
b. All speaking is directed to the chair
c. All speeches must be timed
28. What vote is required to change the limits of debate? (pg. 34)
a. Majority vote
b. Two-thirds vote
c. Majority vote with previous notice
29. The following is true of the motion to limit or extend limits of debate: (pg. 35)
a. It is debatable and can be amended
b. It is not debatable and cannot be amended
c. It is not debatable and can be amended
30. The motion to close debate immediately is the motion for: (pg. 36)
a. Reconsider
b. Previous question
c. Rescind
31. If a member calls out Question! or Vote! without seeking recognition from the chair: (pg.  36)
a. The chair should handle this the same as the motion for the previous question
b. The chair should proceed to take the vote immediately
c. Should explain that this is out of order if another member is speaking or seeking recognition
32. When you want to modify or change the meaning of a main motion, it is called: (pg. 39)
a. A referral to a committee
b. A postponement
c. An amendment
33. What happens next when an amendment is adopted? (pg. 39)
a. The main motion as amended may be debated and amended further
b. The next item of business is taken up
c. The main motion as amended is voted on immediately
34. What are the three methods of simple word amendments? (pg. 40-45)
a. Add, strike out, and divide
b. Insert or add, strike out, strike out and insert
c. Insert or add, substitute, and strike out and insert
35. What is a substitute amendment? (pg. 47)
a. It strikes out words in a paragraph
b. It strikes out and inserts a paragraph
c. It adds or inserts a paragraph or paragraphs
36. What is a secondary amendment? (pg. 49)
a. An amendment to the amendment
b. Voting down an amendment
c. An amendment in the third degree
37. An amendment must be: (pg. 50)
a. Offered when no business is pending
b. Offered at the same time as the main motion
c. Germane to the motion it amends
38. The basic rule is after the group has voted that certain words shall or shall not be part of a motion: (pg. 51)
a. An amendment to add more words can be offered
b. Another amendment that raises the same question of content and effect cannot be offered
c. An amendment to strike out and insert words is the only amendment that can be offered
39. If you want to put off taking a vote on a motion, you can: (pg. 53)
a. Make a brand-new motion on another topic
b. Choose a committee to decide on the motion
c. Make a motion to postpone to a certain time
40. If you have a motion to postpone to a certain time pending: (pg. 53-54)
a. You can only debate whether or not to postpone
b. You can continue debate whether or not the main motion is good
c. It cannot be debated
41. How long can a motion be postponed? (pg. 54)
a. Until the next regular meeting held by the third month following the present month
b. Until the next regular meeting or the one following as long as it is within six months
c. Only until the end of the current meeting
42. The motion to send a motion to a committee for further study or redrafting is called the motion to: (pg. 54)
a. Postpone to a certain time
b. Commit or refer
c. Postpone indefinitely
43. What are the two types of committees? (pg. 54)
a. Standing and special
b. Ad hoc and task force
c. Reporting and studying
44. Which type of committee has continuing existence and function? (pg. 54)
a. Ad hoc committee
b. Special committee
c. Standing committee
45. Which type of committee is appointed for a specific task and goes out of existence when the task is completed? (pg. 55)
a. Special committee
b. Standing committee
c. All committees
46. Which of the following statements is true about the motion to commit or refer? (pg. 55)
a. The motion to commit is not debatable, but it is amendable
b. When the motion to commit is being considered, you may also debate the main motion
c. The motion to commit is debatable and amendable
47. How are standing committee members chosen? (pg. 56)
a. The method is usually established in the bylaws of the organization
b. The president always has the authority to choose committee members
c. The board of directors always has the authority to choose committee members
48. How are special committee members chosen? (pg. 56)
a. They are always appointed by the presiding officer
b. They are always elected by the members in a meeting
c. The method is included in the motion to commit if the bylaws are silent on the method
49. Who may make the motion to reconsider? (pg. 58)
a. Any member
b. A member who voted on the winning side
c. A member who voted on the winning side or who didn’t vote at all
50. When can the motion to reconsider be made? (pg. 59)
a. On the same day, only if the original motion is made in a regular meeting
b. On the same day or on the next day in regular meetings and in conventions
c. On the same day or at the next meeting if it is a regular meeting
51. What is the correct language to make the motion to reconsider? (pg. 60)
a. We should reconsider the motion to hold a seminar in May
b. I move to reconsider the motion to hold a seminar in May
c. I move to reconsider the vote on the motion to hold a seminar in May. I voted for the motion
52. If the motion to reconsider is adopted, what happens next? (pg. 60)
a. The vote on the original motion is taken immediately
b. The original motion is back before the assembly just as it was before the original vote was taken
c. The original motion is back before the assembly and it can be debated but not amended
53. The motions to rescind or amend something previously adopted are like main motions, except: (pg. 61)
a. Previous notice must be given before they can be made
b. A two-thirds vote is required to adopt them
c. A two-thirds vote or a majority of the entire membership is required to adopt them if
previous notice is not given
54. The purpose of requiring previous notice for certain motions or actions is to: (pg. 61)
a. Force a two-thirds vote on an important motion
b. Allow a vote to be taken up at the very same meeting as the notice is given
c. Alert members ahead of time that a certain motion will be made
55. Is it permitted to make a motion again if it was defeated during the current meeting? (pg.  62)
a. It can be made again later in the same meeting
b. Once defeated, the motion can never be made again
c. It can be made again at the next meeting
56. More than half of the votes cast by persons entitled to vote, excluding blanks and abstentions, at a regularly called meeting is called (pg. 66)
a. Majority vote
b. Ballot vote
c. Plurality vote
57. What is a plurality vote? (pg. 66)
a. Half plus one of the members voting
b. The largest number of votes when there are three or more alternatives
c. The result of any vote
58. In which of these circumstances is a two-thirds vote required? (pg. 67)
a. To close debate or extend limits of debate
b. To adopt a main motion
c. To refer to a committee
59. To act on routine matters without putting the motion to a vote is called (pg. 68)
a. Putting the question
b. Point of order
c. Unanimous consent
60. When the phrase, “a majority of the entire membership” is used, what does the phrase “the entire membership” mean? (pg. 67)
a. All members of the voting body, whether present or not
b. All members of the voting body who are present
c. All members of the voting body who are current on dues
61. What does the chair say when handling a matter by unanimous consent? (pg. 68)
a. Do you object to voting immediately?
b. Is there any objection to voting immediately?
c. Is it okay with everyone to vote immediately?
62. When should a member refrain from voting? (pg. 69)
a. When he has not paid his dues
b. When he has a direct personal or monetary interest not common to other members
c. When he has proposed an idea and feels passionate about it
63. Why should the chair appear to be impartial? (pg. 69)
a. So members will feel confident they will receive fair treatment
b. So members will feel confident they elected the right chairman
c. So members will feel confident the meeting will start and end on time
64. When may the chair vote? (pg. 69)
a. At any time he or she chooses
b. The chair can never vote
c. When the vote is by ballot
65. When a vote that requires a majority vote results in a tie: (pg. 69)
a. The motion is adopted
b. The motion is lost
c. The chair must vote to break the tie
66. When a member reasonably doubts the announced result of a vote, he may (pg. 70-71)
a. Complain to others that the chair is unfair
b. Require the vote be retaken as a standing vote by calling out, “Division”
c. Not do anything because the chair has the right to rule on the vote
67. What should the chair say to take a standing vote? (pg. 71)
a. “Everyone in favor, please stand up. (Pause) Everyone opposed, stand up.”
b. “All those in favor, rise. (Count) All those opposed, rise. (Count)
c. “Those in favor of the motion will rise. (Pause) Be seated. Those opposed will rise.  (Pause) Be seated.”
68. When may a vote by show of hands be taken? (pg. 71)
a. At any time
b. Never
c. In a small group
69. When should a vote, other than a ballot vote, be counted? (pg. 72)
a. All standing votes should be counted
b. When a vote is retaken, it should be counted
c. When the chair is uncertain about the results or when the group directs it
70. When is a ballot vote conducted usually? (pg. 74)
a. In elections and when it is a close vote
b. In elections and when it is desired to have a secret vote
c. In elections and when there may be a conflict of interest
71. What is the tellers’ job? (pg. 74)
a. To distribute, collect, and count the ballots
b. To count the ballots and announce the result
c. To monitor the election and announce the result
72. A tellers’ report for an election should contain the following information: (pg. 75)
a. Number of voters eligible to vote, the number of votes cast, and who won the election
b. Number of votes cast and the names of those who won the election
c. Number of votes, cast, number necessary for election, number of votes each person received
73. Who announces who or what has won a ballot vote? (pg. 74)
a. The chairman of the nominating committee
b. The president
c. The chairman of the tellers
74. What should be done if no one receives a majority of the votes in an election? (pg. 74)
a. Take another ballot with all candidates on the ballot
b. Drop the candidate with the lowest number of votes and take another ballot
c. Declare the candidate with the most votes the winner
75. What are the two most common means of nominating candidates for office? (pg. 78)
a. Nominations from the floor and nominations by petition
b. Nominations by nominating committee and nominations by ballot
c. Nominations from the floor and nominations by nominating committee
76. How are nominations from the floor made? (pg. 78)
a. A member calls out, “I nominate Mr. X”
b. A member is recognized by the chair and states, “I nominate Mr. X”
c. A member rises and states, “I nominate Mr. X.” There must be a second
77. How are nominations from the floor closed? (pg. 78)
a. A member must make a motion and the group votes on it
b. The chair declares the nominations closed by saying, “Nominations are now closed”
c. The chair says, “Are there any further nominations? (Pause) If not, nominations are closed.”
78. How should nominating committee members be chosen? (pg. 78)
a. By election
b. Chosen by the president
c. Chosen by the board of directors
79. If there is only one candidate and the organization’s bylaws required a ballot vote for an election: (pg. 79)
a. The chair may declare the nominee elected by acclamation
b. The secretary may cast the electing ballot
c. A ballot vote must be conducted
80. Write-in votes may: (pg. 79)
a. Not be permitted under any circumstances
b. Be cast for any eligible person
c. Be cast only for persons who are nominated
81. During an election, if a newly elected candidate is absent, when is the election final? (pg.  79)
a. When the chair announces the result if the candidate previously consented to serve
b. When the chair notifies the candidate who previously consented to serve and he consents
c. When all candidates are notified whether present or absent
82. When does a candidate take office? (pg. 80)
a. As soon as the election becomes final unless the bylaws specify another time
b. When he or she is installed unless the bylaws specify another time
c. At the next meeting unless the bylaws specify another time
84. If a federal, state, or local law conflicts with an organization’s rules: (pg. 84)
a. The organization must go to court to resolve the issue
b. The law supersedes any conflicting provision in the organization’s rules
c. The organization must follow their own rules
85. The highest level of rules contained in a document of the organization is called (pg. 85)
a. Special rules of order
b. Bylaws
c. Standing rules
86. When a group needs to vary the rules from those in the parliamentary authority: (pg. 86)
a. It must amend its bylaws
b. It may adopt special rules
c. It may adopt standing rules
87. What are the rules relating to administrative details called? (pg. 87)
a. Standing rules
b. Special rules
c. Policies
88. What should be done if a custom conflicts with a rule of the organization? (pg. 87)
a. Follow the custom
b. Follow the written rule
c. The president must decide which one to follow
89. Whose duty is it to make sure the rules are followed? (pg. 90)
a. The sergeant-at-arms
b. The chair
c. The members
90. How does a member call attention to the chair when a rule is being violated? (pg. 90)
a. Stand, interrupt if necessary, and call out, “Point of order”
b. Stand, be recognized by the chair, and state, “Point of order”
c. Remain seated and call out, “Point of order”
91. What does the chair say when a point of order is raised? (pg. 90)
a. “Why are you interrupting the meeting?”
b. The chair says how the rule is or is not being broken
c. “The member will state his point of order”
92. Who rules on a point of order? (pg. 90)
a. The assembly
b. The board of directors
c. The chair
93. What can you do if you disagree with a ruling by the chair? (pg. 90)
a. Appeal to the group as a whole
b. You must abide by the chair’s ruling
c. Move to suspend the rules
94. How is a debatable appeal handled? (pg. 90)
a. The chair may speak twice in debate, but members may only speak once
b. The chair may not speak and members may speak twice in debate
c. The chair and the members may both speak twice
95. What does the chair say to put an appeal to the vote? (pg. 91)
a. “All in favor of the appeal, say aye. (Pause) Those opposed, say no”
b. “Shall the appeal of the member be sustained?”
c. “Shall the decision of the chair be sustained?”
96. What motion should you make when you want to do something the rules do not permit?  (pg. 93)
a. Move to suspend the rules
b. Move to appeal the decision of the chair
c. Move to limit debate
97. How does a member ask a question about the rules and how they apply? (pg. 94)
a. Make a request for information
b. Make a parliamentary inquiry
c. Make a point of order
98. When may you interrupt a speaker for a parliamentary inquiry? (pg. 94)
a. At any time
b. Never
c. If your question requires immediate attention
99. What do you say when you move to suspend the rules? (pg. 94)
a. “I move to suspend the rule that limits debate”
b. “I move to suspend the rules that only allow two speeches”
c. “I move to suspend the rule to let the member speak for a third time”
100. Who provides advice to the presiding officer on conducting the meeting according to the rules? (pg. 95)
a. The vice-president
b. The secretary
c. The parliamentarian
